## **Bad Practices** 

1.1.1. Redundant/useless data 

   - 1.1.2. Timelion without index defined 

- 1.2. *** timelion is deprecated *** 

   - 1.2.1. Timelion with hardcoded interval and offset 

   - 1.2.2. Kibana dashboards with very short refresh rate 

In order to provide users best possible service with good/acceptable performance, it is more than expected that all users not only follow best practices, but also try to avoid bad practices. 

Some statistics, so everyone can make a picture about our service usage -> Best overview can be understood from our dashboard in the biggest cluster: U S_comm. 

## **Wildcards usage** 

Using wildcards in queries is taking approximately 10x more resources to compute results than querying without wildcards (up to 100x more resources on fields with high cardinality). Sometimes, it is critical to use wildcard in query - like in case user investigate and search for right data. But it is extremely bad behaviour when users put it to visualizations/dashboards. Then, as you can see from above table, and the dashboard is open > 1,000/week, the performance effect is huge. 

Think about better data design - ie. as is described in an example on Logging - Best Practices. 

## **1.1.1. Redundant/useless data** 

Analyzing stored logs, it seems there are a lot of redundancy. It is always easier for developers to log everything, if they are allowed to. But the cost is, we have to add more data nodes (licenses) and eventually shorten retention period for everyone. Think twice what and how you log, so it gives you proper value, but doesn't take value to others. 

Some examples: 

some teams didn't read or try properly log mapping, so to make sure their data are visible and somehow searchable, they put same log message to **exception_obj.message** and to **description** fields. As you can imagine, exceptions can be very large. So, instead of sending  10kB log message, the document is always double sized. In extreme cases, these are 10MB+ 

many services have their own health checks for dependent services. When dependency is not reachable, they log error message (till now, everything is ok). But they don't have a mechanism for reasonable logging about dependency error. Ie. in one concrete case, service started to send about 10,000 error logs per second! just to tell, there is a problem with dependency. Of course, if you increase your normal traffic 10x or more, Logging Service have hard times to serve with proper performance. ... 

## **1.1.2.** ~~**Timelion without index defined**~~ 

## 1.2. ***** timelion is deprecated ***** 

~~Timelion definition starts with .es(). If user put inside only string, it is understood by default as a query, without defining scope. Means, this query is then executed against ALL indexes and ALL their shards. Instead of running the query on ie. 8 indexes (in case of txn logs) it is executed on ~750 of them. This has huge performace impact on whole service.~~ 

~~Examples of bad timelion definitions:~~ 

```
// properly defined some .es properties, but index is missing
```

```
.es(q='application:Imaging AND img_data.category:"ROWCOUNT:IMG_FAX"', metric=avg:img_data.amount, offset=-7d)
```

```
// only string as .es parameter. That means, it is by default taken as a query. Again, no index defined
.es('description:"*appzen*" AND cte.category:"Connect"')
```

Examples, how above bad definitions may be fixed: 

```
// here, it is just as simple as add index property
.es(index='*:txn-2', q='application:Imaging AND img_data.category:"ROWCOUNT:IMG_FAX"', metric=avg:img_data.
amount, offset=-7d)
```

```
// add index property and also 'q' property (as query) for original value
```

```
.es(index='*:log-2', q='description:"*appzen*" AND cte.category:"Connect"')
```

## **1.2.1.** ~~**Timelion with hardcoded interval and offset**~~ 

~~Sometimes it is critical for you that data interval is specific (like 1m, 1d, ...) - so that it doesn't change when you adjust time range. But specifically if you ask for like 1m interval, it can generate very huge (and unnecessarily granular) response.~~ 

~~Using offset in Timelion makes this visualization very powerful (comparing load with past at this time in week). Elasticsearch is built to be very powerful search engine, using heavily caches for fast responses. However, old data are usually not cached, so they need to be always re-loaded and cache again (so they take place of newer data in cache). In combination with more offsets in one visualization, hardcoded interval (and eventually with previously mentioned issue with not defined index), this is real performance killer (for all users).~~ 

## **1.2.2. Kibana dashboards with very short refresh rate** 

When you create kibana dashbaord, you can save it with default time range, as well as save it by default with auto-refresh ON and even default refresh time. These are great features - ie. if you need to run that dashboard on your TV. BUT there are about 1200 active users (of our SEA instance). Just imagine, 10 or 20 people (that normally happen) open your dashboard with default set, and let it open in their browser on background. 

Some "wild" dashboards are actually calling up to 20 requests to load data (internally, this can be up to 5000 queries!). Imagine such dashboard is opened on 20 machines, and refreshes every minute. (real life scenario that actually happened and caused huge performance degradation to LoggingService) 

