## **Data optimizations** 

Elastic managed intro Elastic contract Elastic Cloud clusters architecture Cost optimization possibilities 

1. Kubernetes bucket reduction Data analyses What is changing 

2. Service-mesh logs reduction Data analyses What is changing 

3. Debug logs dropping (or undefined or random values) 

4. All info logs sampling (~50% ?) + aggregations ACTION REQUIRED ROLLOUT 

Exponential data volume growth into Logging Service together with very limited budget for Elastic Cloud push us towards some radical solutions in the optimization area! Here is a list of optimizations we are considering/preparing/deploying - please feel free to contribute with your ideas or perspective. If there will be really strong business reason(s), we might reconsider or redesign these changes. 

**NOTE: If you have ANY doubts that any of these changes might cause significant issue to your logs insight or other critical issue, please let us know ASAP. We will lead open conversation about these...** 

## Elastic managed intro 

To give our users an idea where we are and why we need to push for these eliminations: 

## **Elastic contract** 

Elastic Cloud managed contract is based on pre-paid credit, for three years with 10% growing year-by-year. Credit is consumed by any instance running. Once we consume all credit for given year, we are losing some benefits given by the contract, the prices is about 20% higher and we have to pay ANY overuse. 

## **Elastic Cloud clusters architecture** 

For cost optimizations, we use HOT/COLD/FROZEN data architecture. To simplify the calculations these are $'s ratios for volume of data per each tier: 50 /10/1 (That means, 1GB in HOT tier cost 50x more compared to FROZEN tier). 

We did very detailed analyses on how you, our users, query our data, and found that: 

- ~ 70% of all and heaviest queries go against last 24 hours of data ~ 20% of all queries go against last 1-7d of data less than 10% of queries asks for older than 7d 

That lead to retentions: 

## 24h / 8d / rest of retention 

Budget was calculated to peak load back then, and we added extra 20%. The peak load was ~ 250,000 docs per second, and ~30TB of data a day. 

Current (March 2023) load (only in US2) is ~500,000 /s and > 80TB of data a day. EU2 and other clusters add other ~25%. (actually, the load was about 30-40% higher during the migration to AWS) 

Due to above load jump up, we have changed data tiers retentions to: 

4h / 4d / rest of retention - this lead to currently seen performance issues when users searching for data in US2/EU2! 

## **Cost optimization possibilities** 

If we want to optimize, we need to focus on HOT and COLD tiers: 

to scale down HOT tier, we need to significantly drop the volume being ingested to elasticsearch 

to scale down COLD tier, we either shorten retention (as we already did) or significantly decrease volume of data, or both. 

Please, follow-up a slack discussion on this topic 

. 

**List of coming/possible changes** : 

Elastic managed intro 

Elastic contract Elastic Cloud clusters architecture Cost optimization possibilities 

1. Kubernetes bucket reduction 

Data analyses What is changing 

2. Service-mesh logs reduction Data analyses What is changing 

3. Debug logs dropping (or undefined or random values) 

4. All info logs sampling (~50% ?) + aggregations ACTION REQUIRED ROLLOUT 

## 1. Kubernetes bucket reduction 

Current status: 

**DONE** 

(PSCC coming soon) 

Timeline: ~~February~~ March 2023 

Kubernetes bucket contains a lot of waste that is redundant and/or not used at all. In this project, we focused on what is used from kubernetes bucket, and remove everything else. By this, we will save about 10-12% of all load. 

This is coming out with the new Logstash upgrades. Will be rolled out by end of February in all environments 

## **Data analyses** 

- **~58,5%** of ALL data contains kubernetes bucket (ie. in US2, it is > than 17 billions of documents per day) 

Size of typical original kubernetes bucket (including all fields which are not even indexed) is about **800 B** . Often goes up to 1,5 kB. Reducing ALL not indexed fields, and some redundant and not used fields from kubernetes bucket, we are able to decrease the size to ~ **265 B** . 

In average, this reduction should save about **8,5TB** of data only in US2. It is about **11%** of all volume! 

## **What is changing** 

There are two parts of this change: 

kubernetes bucket - we will only allow specific set of fields into the elasticsearch: 

```
kubernetes.account
kubernetes.cluster
kubernetes.container_name
kubernetes.namespace
kubernetes.pod
kubernetes.labels. ... // see below list of fields
```

Any other field will be simply pruned on logstash tier. 

kubernetes.labels bucket. Till now, it was widely open practically to anything. Some teams were sending TONS of data there, where many of them were redundant with the log content and not even indexed. From now on, only these labels will be allowed and all other will be pruned: 

```
kubernetes.labels.component
kubernetes.labels.instance
kubernetes.labels.managed_by
kubernetes.labels.name
kubernetes.labels.part_of
kubernetes.labels.version
```

## 2. Service-mesh logs reduction 

Current status: 

**DONE** 

(PSCC coming soon) 

Timeline: ~March ~~/April~~ 2023 (if we go this direction, we need to deliver this ASAP, as we are consuming now 2023 credit) 

Service-mesh generates one log for every outbound and one for inboud traffic request. That practically means 2 logs for each http request between services. If everything works well, there is no need to read these data. Only in case of issue, they might be valuable. This was acknowledged also by few architects. 

**Data analyses** 

Envoy data can be search by query **`application: *envoy`** . These represents **~28,5%** of ALL data (~40% of all info logs) We found few dashboards visualizing these data - these would require rewrite to aggregations, but the value would be preserved If we create 1 minute aggregations on these data per roletype and application, we would save **99,98%** of the volume taken normally by these data - means practically all **~28% count** and **~25% volume savings** . 

## **What is changing** 

UPDATE: after discussion in #ap channel, we are going to do conditional filtering here, and deliver change in steps: 

First (should be deployed first half in March), filter not important envoy data, and drop them. Keep only these: level: warning+ 

NOT response_code: (2* OR 3* OR 0) duration_ms > 30s 

These above represents ~ 1,5% of all service-mesh logs. Query: 

```
application:*envoy AND ((_exists_:response_code AND !response_code:(0 OR 2* OR 3*)) OR level:
(warning OR warn OR error OR err OR critical OR fatal) OR duration_ms :> 30000)
```

Once priorities and time allows (April/May), we might implement S3 backups of original data (roletype/YYYY/mm/DD/hh) And finally, calculate 1 minute aggregations of ALL envoy logs, by all these fields: (roletype, response_code) and calculate stats for: duration_ms 

Possible extension of this project could be that we create an automated mechanism that would load these data (some short intervals, like 2 hours for specific roletype) back to elasticsearch with shortened retention. This would allow easy analyses of such data. Such extension cannot be delivered quickly, and would have few months delay. 

## 3. Debug logs dropping (or undefined or random values) 

Current status: **DONE** (US2 & EU2) 

Timeline: ~March ~~/April~~ 2023 

We will not accept any **level: debug** logs in production. They will be simply dropped at Logstash level. 

Currently only accepted values for field level: 

```
if level =~ /(?i)(?:^|\.)(?:fatal|panic|emerg|alert|crit|err|warn|notice|info)/ or (level.is_a? Numeric and
level>=20);
```

**IMPORTANT NOTE** : Field `level` is required for application logs. Not having any value or not applicable value will result into data loss. See more info on this wiki: Application Log Format (v2) 

## 4. ~~All info logs sampling (~50% ?) + aggregations~~ 

~~**NOTE: we are still beyond our credit possibilities - so this (or similar) optimization is absolutely required. As SAP told us: "you will get $0 for managed Elastic"**~~ 

~~Current status:~~ **CANCELLED** 

~~Timeline: September 2023~~ 

~~~ 50% of ALL data are logs with level: info or less. We believe that many of these data are not important or even useless for indexing as they are. Most use-cases we found are to visualize count of these data. Sometimes, specially when there is an issue, users have a need to review the raw data.~~ 

~~Based on above, we created this design suggestion. It should significantly lower the load, but meantime all users should get their value:~~ 

~~We will do 33% (or 50%) random sampling on all info logs (type: log AND level: info or less). That means, only 33 % (or 50%) of logs will make it to the elasticsearch~~ 

~~ALL data that won't make it to elasticsearch,~~ ~~**will be stored** with at minimum the same retention in S3 available to all users We will generate 1 or 2 minute aggregations from values of these fields:~~ ~~**roletype | application | level | category | subcategory** . So you'll be able to quantify exactly how many such logs were sent. Aggregations will be created from ALL log data (not only those which didn't make it to Elastic), their retention will be extended (at minimum 8 weeks, possibly 6 months - but reduced to 10 minutes aggregations)~~ 

## ~~**ACTION REQUIRED**~~ 

~~If you have dashboards or watches based on info logs, you will need to either lower the threshold based on the sampling rate (33 or 50% - not decided yet), or you'll need to switch it to the aggregations that will be created.~~ 

## ~~**ROLLOUT**~~ 

~~This change is complex, and we will roll it out in phases:~~ 

~~phase 1: generate aggregations (July in Integration, August in Productions) phase 2: start sampling data (August in Integration, September in Producions)~~ 

