## **Delete Unwanted data** 

Centralized LoggingService is designed so that teams can send their logs in. But no-one except admins can do any manipulation with already stored data. 

There are situations, like application bug, when some unwanted data can leak into the LoggingService system. Example of such data: 

Passwords or other secrets/tokens PCIs Users sensitive data ... 

Although Logging team is doing regular data analyses and verifications, such data might be indefinable and therefore visible to every Concur employee with access to particular LoggingService instance. 

## Process to delete unwanted data 

If you found unwanted data and you are owner of those data, follow these steps to successfully mitigate this situation: 

1.  First of all, and the most important thing is, to fully understand the issue, and if possible, deliver a fix to the application ASAP 2.  Inform Security team for overall mitigation strategy around the issue. 

3.  As well inform LAMA team, for assistance with unwanted data: a.  Create LAMA JIRA ticket and include as many details about data as possible: i.  At minimum, we need kibana or REST API query that covers 100% of unwanted data, and as minimum as possible false positives (all these data will most probably be deleted) 

ii.  Provide list of ALL environments where this issue happened, and therefore where data will need to be deleted iii.  Usual data retention is 4-6 weeks. Include also exact timeframe where data has to be deleted. b.  Ping Logging team owners - Support - Logging Service (directly -> email or slack, to minimize audience) about this fact, and ask for immediate assistance 

c.  We will then walk you through the process, manage those data and ask you for verification 

