## **GDPR Logging** 

In order to meet R&D General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) requirements, each time Concur employee or Concur customer views Concur customers sensitive data or changes Concur customers personal data, there should be a log who/when/what viewed/changed. 

Personal Data Access/Change Logs Data In Personal Data Access/Change Logs Data Format Personal Data Access/Change Logs Data Access FAQ 

We are introducing new type of logs "change" log, and "access" log to support these needs on Concur Logging Service side. **We'll keep the same well known logging services endpoints and input methods for this new type of logs, only the log format is different (see below).** These logs are stored in same logging service clusters, but with different security, policies data backup and DR mechanisms, data retention (13months), SLA. 

When: 

User access to cardholder data 

Administrative actions (privileged users or generic admin accounts) User accesses to audit trails 

Identification / authentication (including failed ones) 

Changes to ID/auth mechanisms (new account, new privileges, changes / additions / deletions of admin accounts) Start / pause / stop of logging 

Creation / deletion of system-level objects (system files, DB tables, stored procedures…) 

if you have several services in one e2e user transaction to obtain user personal information, GDPR does not require to log this in each and every individual service/layer, you can log only once, at the place where the data is exposed to a user who does not own the data 

What: 

see log format below 

How: 

Sync all important clocks to reliable source (and harden configuration) Backup all audit trails to a secure centralized log server Secure logs: 

Access controls (need-to-know only) Log accesses to logs Prevent unauthorized changes Use detective controls (e.g. File Integrity Monitoring) to raise alerts when existing logs change Retain an audit trail of 1 year (at least 3 months online or immediately available) 

Logs must be scrubbed to exclude sensitive personal data (passwords, credit card numbers,…) 

## **Personal Data Access/Change Logs Data In** 

All data (application logs, audit logs, gdpr logs...) use the same ingestion pipeline. See all endpoints on Service Endpoints - Logging Service . 

Use the same well known logging protocols and methods you already use for general application logging (HTTP, FileBeat, TCP, etc). 

## **Personal Data Access/Change Logs Data Format** 

See GDPR Log Format (v3) . 

## **Personal Data Access/Change Logs Data Access** 

GDPR audit data are present in the main logging service cluster, under separate index patterns (*:access-*, *:change-* or *:query-*). Use regular endpoints on Service Endpoints - Logging Service to get to the service (kibana) and check on this wiki on How to get access... 

## **FAQ** 

## **Q: Can we send personal data in Concur application logs?** 

A: Yes, if you use centralized Concur Logging Service, you can send unmasked personal data as part of Concur application logs, but NO sensitive personal data. 

## **Q: Can we use FileBeat and have personal data in log files, prior shipping them to Concur Logging Service?** 

A: Yes, FileBeat is one of recommended logging methods. You can use log files and FileBeat, however, in case your logs contain personal data, you need to ensure logs are not retained more than a day on production host, and you need to install FileBeat under dedicated service user, with rotating password in Device42, and restrict access to your log files to this service user ONLY. 

**Q: Can we send sensitive personal data in Concur application logs?  What if we send by accident sensitive personal data in Concur application logs?** 

A: NO. You can NOT send sensitive personal data into Concur application logs.  Concur logging service and SecOps teams will be doing proactive intelligent scans over logging data, and any violation detected will be treated as high priority Prod incident, and corresponding logs might be completely erased and blacklisted until fix is introduced. 

We are making logging service GDPR compliant, but not PCI compliant.  Its responsibility of data producer to follow logging services terms of use and mask/skip sensitive data in logs. 

## **Q: What is difference between personal data and sensitive personal data?** 

A: See Personal Data and Personally Identifiable Information (PII) 

## **Q: Can everyone read and view Concur application logs via Kibana? Can we display Kibana dashboards on TV screens for Ops monitoring and analysis?** 

A: We are introducing authentication with OKTA for all instances of Kibana. All access to logging data will be tracked in logging service audit logs. 

## **Q: Can everyone read and view Concur application logs via Elasticsearch REST API?** 

A: We are introducing authentication with x509 certs for all Prod REST API Elasticsearch calls. 

## **Q: What is personal data access/change log? How to send and format this type of log? How to access those logs?** 

A: In order to meet R&D General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) requirements, each time Concur employee or Concur customer views Concur customers sensitive data or change Concur customers personal data, there should be a log who/when/what viewed/changed. We are introducing new type of logs "access", "change" to be supported in Logging Service for these needs. Those logs will be stored under **different data retention (13 months)** , different DR/backup strategy, etc. Find all details about these types of logs, the proposed log layout, etc, on Personal Data Access/Change Logging . 

## **Q: Should we log each access and/or change to customer personal data or only sensitive data?** 

A: There should be a log of type "access" logged each time **customer sensitive personal data is being viewed by someone who does not own this data** .  There should be a log of type "change" each time **customer personal data (both sensitive and non sensitive) is being changed** . Sensitive data values (before change, after change) should NOT be sent as part of "change" log however, personal non-sensitive data values (before change, after change) can be sent in the "change" log. 

## **Q: GDPR audit logs Kibanas access in Prod is restricted, how can I verify my audit logs are indexed with no issues in Prod?** 

A: Anyone can request access to audit logs in Integration, and then use Kibana instance to check it there https://lp-search.integration.concur.global. Access requests to prod audit logs is being monitored, and might be rejected. 

## **Q: What about "Right to be forgotten"?** 

A: Logging Service application logs generally have 6 weeks of retention period. Aggregated metrics and rollups do not contain any personal data, as those are just counters and metric values. For cases where we provide longer data retention (i.e. child logging service clusters for some teams with longer retention), the logging service will provide ability to delete certain data on demand. REST API endpoint can/will be exposed to teams to be able to delete all log data, related to particular Concur customer. 

