## **Indexing and Analysis** 

While using Elasticsearch and Kibana, you hear terms like indexing, analysis, and searching. Let us closely explain these terms and what it means from a particular usage perspective. 

## Store document, index fields 

First of all, there is a difference between what is stored and what is indexed. In all of our usual cases, we always store the original document. However, we only index some of its fields. Then, you use these indexes for aggregations, visualizations and searching for whole documents. Only those fields are indexed, which are in the mapping, and based on the mapping. 

We normally support few basic type of fields: 

object date numeric string 

## **Object** 

Object type field is only a 'container' for other nested fields. An example is custom buckets... 

## **Date** 

Date field is supported only after extra discussion, as this field type requires meeting format standards. You can use a variety of formats, but once you select a format, it always has to be the same. We remember a lot data loss, usually from other continents. This was because devs didn't normalize the format of the date. Have really strong reasons to use date field. 

## **Numeric** 

We basically support these: 

integer - 32-bit integer long - 64-bit integer float - single-precision 32-bit double - double-precision 64-bit 

## **String** 

String fields can have a variety of options for analyzing and postprocessing the values. Please, refer to the below section about String analysis for a detailed overview. 

## String analysis 

There are unlimited possibilities regarding what you can do with mapping and string fields. But, to have a reasonable compromise between performance and cost, and simplicity, we practically only use 3 types of string indexes - below. 

For all examples below, I expect these documents to be indexed: 

```
1        { "field1": "one two three", "field2": "http://abc.def.com" }
2        { "field1": "two four six", "field2": "http://concur.global" }
3        { "field1": "oneTwo threeFour", "field2": "http://www.google.com" }
```

## **not_analyzed** 

String value (token) is taken as is, without any customizations or tokenizing. This means, while searching, you have to meet the exact value. 

Kibana search examples (queries & results): 

_expecting both, field1 and field2 are indexed as not_analyzed_ 

```
field1: one        // none
field1: "one two three"        // 1
field1: two\ four\ six        // 2
field1: one*         // 1
field1: *two*        // 1,2 (notice, that doc 3 has not two, but Two)
field1: *three*        // 1,3
field2: http*        // 1,2,3
```

For REST API queries apply the same steps as above, except that terms queries don't work with wildcards. 

Usually, not_analyzed indexes are used for aggregations also 

## **not_analyzed .analyzed** 

Field with this mapping is specific because the field itself is not_analyzed. It has inner field (.analyzed) which process the same value but with standard analyzer. 

For the first part (not_analyzed), the same rules as above apply. 

For the second part (.analyzed), queries have to contain .analyzed suffix for the field name, like 

```
field1.analyzed: xxx
```

Then, this index contains the analyzed value of field1 original document. It means, the original value was tokenized and filtered. Standard tokenizer uses the Unicode Text Segmentation algorithm to split tokens. In practical terms, it usually means: ' ' (space), '.' (dot), '/' (slash), '-' (dash), ':' (colon), '\n' (new line), '\t' (tab), ... with some exceptions. For example, '.com', '.net', '.asp' are not tokenized. Read Unicode Standard Annex #29 for more detailed information. 

Also, standard analyzer lowercase all values = **searches are case-insensitive** . 

To apply this to our examples, values are split as follows (split by comma): 

```
1        { "field1.analyzed": "one, two, three", "field2.analyzed": "http, abc, def.com" }
2        { "field1.analyzed": "two, four, six", "field2.analyzed": "http, www, concur.global" }
3        { "field1.analyzed": "onetwo, threefour", "field2.analyzed": "http, www, google.com" }
```

With this information, you may already guess, how queries can look: 

```
field1.analyzed: one        // 1
field1.analyzed: "one two three"        // this query can be also translated as 'field1:one OR field1:two OR
field1:three' => doc 1,2
field1.analyzed: one*         // 1,3
field1.analyzed: *two*        // 1,2,3
field2.analyzed: http        // 1,2,3
field2.analyzed: com        // none (remember, there is no token 'com', as it is always part of other tokens)
field2.analyzed: *com        // 1,2,3
```

```
field2.analyzed: http://abc.def.com                // 1,2,3 (the query is internally translated as: 'field2.
analyzed: http OR field2.analyzed: abc OR field2.analyzed: def.com')
```

## **analyzed (80 tokens)** 

These fields are usually very long, so to prevent any performance issues or eventually a cluster stability issue, we decided to index and analyze only the first 80 tokens. 

In practice, you query only with the field name (no .analyzed suffix), however there apply the same rules as to above (.analyzed). 

Example - I want to index this doc where I know the description field has a limitation of 80 tokens: 

```
{ "field1": "one two three", "field2": "http://abc.def.com", "description": "one two three four ... twentyfive
twentysix ... seventynine eighty eightyone eightytwo" }
```

Then, these searches will/won't return the document: 

```
description: one                // will return
description: two                // will return
description: eighty                // will return
description: eightyone        // will NOT return
```

As you can see - eightyone word is part of the value, but the indexer indexed only the first 80 tokens, and ignored the rest. They are still saved in the document but are not capable for searches. 

