## **Watcher** 

Watcher Management process 

Watch definition Watch create/update->review->deploy workflow PR Approval process Watcher Failure during deployment Useful links (from Elastic Inc. ) Watcher Deployment status 

Watcher is a built-in Kibana tool that can be used for data watching and conditional actioning (email, slack, PagerDuty...). 

Due to security and audit reasons, we allow users to manage their watches only through the **automation tool: Logging-Registration-Self-Service** . Please, follow instructions on the README page, to automate your watches. 

Kibana UI (watcher), can be used to check and monitor your watches. 

## Watcher Management process 

Create watch definition  push to LoggingService-watches repo  create PullRequest for automated review and merging deployment phase 

Your PR will not automatically merge for sensitive ctx.payload usage in uspscc 

Automatic merging is blocked for a number of validation failures which will be displayed in your PR, or under the validation action output. 

## **Watch definition** 

The following items should be part of the watch definition and will be reviewed as part of the PR process: 

## 1. Mandatory fields 

Each watch will have to contain mandatory metadata, to properly define ownership and escalation path: 

```
metadata.RoleType               // roletype
metadata.GitHubRepository       // same value as expected for ATM tagging GitHubRepository
metadata.JiraAlias              // same value as expected for ATM tagging JiraAlias
metadata.JiraComponent          // same value as expected for ATM tagging JiraComponent
```

For reference: ATM Tagging 

## 2. No raw data usage allowed - in PSCC 

For security reasons, watches cannot process raw data (to not exploit any sensitive data, which might be present in the logs). Any usage of `{{ctx. payload.hits.hits}}` or `{{ctx.payload.aggregations}}` will be manually reviewed and might not be allowed in PSCC! 

## 3. Use for best practices usage 

Logging team will be always part of the review process. Each watch creation/update will be reviewed even from best-practices perspective. Few basic things to monitor here: 

target indexes trigger intervals query structure, like wildcards usage always present and reasonable time ranges aggregation build size 

## 4. Directory structure 

To make the automation tool transparent for many teams, each team creates own directory for their Self Service objects (elasticsearch_watches in this case). 

## 5. Deployment target(s) 

Every watch metadata has to contain `deploy_to` part, to define where this watch will be deployed to. It has to be 1+. 

## **Watch create/update->review->deploy workflow** 

1.  Fork the repository 

2.  Create your watch in proper directory 

3.  Push update and create Pull Request against the master branch 

4.  If all validations pass, it will be auto-merged and auto-deployed. In case of any failure, manual review or check might be needed - please contact lama team on #ask-logging channel. 

## PR Approval process 

To smoothly get approval for your PR, ALL these criteria needs to be met: 

1. Only use the following if you have a valid use for them. Sensitive data can be exposed via these variables: **ctx.payload.hits.hits** 

**ctx.payload.aggregations** 

If any of above is present anywhere in the watch definition, this has to go through completely manual review process, with reading data. _**Example**_ : 

```
# ie. in actions:
```

`... {{ctx.payload.hits.hits[0]._source.login_id}} ...` 2. Required metadata available In order to understand who is owner of the watch, we require some identifier. And to be consistent with ATM structure - mandated tagging, these are required in metadata: 

GitHubRepository JiraAlias JiraComponent 

_**Example**_ : 

```
"metadata": {
```

```
  "RoleType": "abc",
```

```
  "GitHubRepository": "teamABC/project_1",
```

```
  "JiraAlias": "ABC",
```

`"JiraComponent": "Project" }` 3. Correct index definition In v5 clusters, we used always daily indexes, so users are used to put something like this in watch definition: "log-*{now/d}". In v7 clusters, this doesn't work anymore, as there are NO daily indexes at all. You should use only one of these: 

*:log-2 

*:metric-2 

- *:txn-2 

- *:agg 

- *:winlogbeat 

- *:data-2 

_**Example**_ : 

```
"indices": ["*:log-2"]
```

4. Reasonable execution interval and query range Trigger interval shorter than 5min is not allowed by default. There has to be strong reasoning behind approving trigger less than 5m. Ideally not at all for less than 3m. Also, it is not acceptable if the ratio between trigger interval and query range is less then 1:12. It means, max allowed ratio is to execute every 5mins, and load data for 1h. 5. Queries are correct and logical In order to provide stable service, we need to make sure, all users queries (mainly regular - like in watches) are good. These are the biggest evil query types and mistakes that should be avoided: 

unnecessary wildcards (well, wildcards in general too) Many general fields are either analyzed or have '.analyzed' field inside. Check mapping page to see those fields. In such case, it is enough to search on whole words in such field, without wildcard. _**Example**_ : consider document like this: 

```
{
```

```
  "application": "my application number 3",
```

- `"description": "this is log from my application number 3. Something bad happened - error"` 

```
}
```

Then, these are examples of bad vs good queries - but they both return same results: 

```
# bad queries:
application: "my application*"
application: *3
description: *error
description: "*number 3*"
# good queries:
application.analyzed: "my application"
application.analyzed: 3
description: error
description: "number 3"
```

## Watcher Failure during deployment 

You may see the failure in the #lama-lrss-logs slack channel. 

We plan to capture elasticsearch deployment error responses and make them available in the future (as we used to do in previous iterations of LRSS). 

## Useful links (from Elastic Inc. ) 

How Watcher Works 

Watcher UI 

#lama-lrss-logs 

#ask-logging 

## Watcher Deployment status 

Reported to Slack - _**#**_ lama-lrss-logs 

